Music
First described in 2000 by a research team led by renowned cancer biologist Dr. Robert Weinberg,
the hallmarks of cancer are distinct biological properties of cancer cells that contribute to the cancer phenotype.
Although our understanding of cancer has grown tremendously in the years since Weinberg's publication,
these original six features of cancer have remained.
Let's now explore more closely these common processes that are known to underlie cancer development and progression.
The proliferation or division of normal cells is a tightly regulated process, often referred to as the cell cycle.
In normal tissues, a fine balance of cell division is controlled by both internal mechanisms and external signals from the cellular environment.
Under growth promoting conditions, a cell will receive intrinsic and extrinsic signals to enter the cell cycle.
Conversely, these pathways are inactivated during unfavorable conditions,
preventing cell growth and proliferation and causing the cell to exit the cell cycle.
Cancer cells have the ability to sustain proliferation even when conditions do not warrant it.
They can produce their own growth factors or signal to other cells in the microenvironment to do so.
Cell surface receptors on the cancer cell can also be dysregulated so that they become hypersensitive to growth signals or persist in an active state at all times.
Just as there are signals to indicate when a cell should grow and divide,
the cell also has mechanisms in place to limit cellular proliferation and prevent cell division when necessary.
Some of these mechanisms are extrinsic, such as the presence of anti-growth factors in the extracellular environment.
Others are intrinsic.
Normal cells possess several internal checkpoints along the cell cycle that monitor the overall health of the cell
and determine if conditions are suitable to continue through the cell cycle.
In cancer cells, these checkpoints and anti-growth signaling pathways are often absent or disrupted, which results in persistent cell division.
Many organisms possess mechanisms for eliminating defective or abnormal cells from their tissues,
as these cells could pose a threat to the overall health of the organism.
One such mechanism is through programmed cell death, or apoptosis.
Apoptosis is a highly regulated process involving many proteins and other molecules in the cell that leads to the systematic elimination of damaged cells.
It is common for cancer cells to accumulate disruptive alterations in the apoptosis pathway, allowing them to avoid cell death.
In the cancerous state, there is a failure of this intrinsic mechanism to destroy damaged or abnormal cells in the body.
Most cells have a finite lifespan that is usually linked to the number of cell divisions that can take place.
This lifespan is controlled by multiple mechanisms that involve sensing or counting the number of divisions that have occurred.
Cancer cells often lose these internal mechanisms, which control the number of cell divisions that take place, allowing for indefinite replication or immortalization.
Importantly, it is this feature that has enabled much of our understanding of the properties of cancer cells.
Many cell lines that are used for biomedical research are in fact derived from cancer cells that have become immortalized.
In non-disease states, the cells, tissues, and organs of the body exist in a defined architecture.
This structure is critical to the normal function of the body's organ systems.
However, cancer cells can activate signaling pathways that allow them to invade neighboring tissues, enter the bloodstream, and travel to distant sites, a process called metastasis.
Through metastasis, cancerous cells invade surrounding tissues and spread to other regions of the body to begin the formation of new tumors.
Metastatic tumors typically impede the normal function of the organs that they invade, leading to increased disease severity.
Therefore, the hallmark of invasion and metastasis is a very important aspect of disease progression and increasing disease severity.
Angiogenesis is the process of blood vessel formation.
Blood vessels are necessary to deliver oxygen and nutrients to the tissues of the body.
Like normal tissues, tumors must also have access to nutrients and oxygen in order to survive.
As solid tumors progress, cells within the tumor begin to secrete molecules that induce angiogenesis.
Angiogenesis facilitates tumor growth by providing nutrients and oxygen required for continuous cell division and metastasis.
you